v22.1.3 release notes (#14499)
cockroachdb/docs: _includes/releases/v22.1/v22.1.3.md

- A new single column called **Rows Processed**, displayed by default, combines the columns rows read and rows written on the **Statements** and **Transactions** pages. [#83511][#83511]
- The period selected on the [**Metrics**](../v22.1/ui-overview.html#metrics) page and the [**SQL Activity**](../v22.1/ui-overview.html#sql-activity) pages are now aligned. If the user changes the period on one page, the value will be the same for the other. [#83507][#83507]
- Added a period label to the **Statement**, **Statement Details**, and **Transaction** pages, with information about the period in which we're showing information. The **Execution Statistics** tab was removed from the **Statement Details** page. [#83333][#83333]
- Removed the 10 and 30 minute options on the **SQL Activity** page. [#83542][#83542]
- On the **Statements** page, users can no longer filter statements by searching for text in the `EXPLAIN` plan. [#83652][#83652]
- Updated the tooltips on the **Statements** and **Transactions** pages in the DB Console for improved user experience. [#83540][#83540]

<h3 id="v22-1-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug where in earlier v22.1 releases added validation could cause problems for descriptors which carried invalid back references due to an previous bug in v21.1. This stricter validation could result in a variety of query failures. CockroachDB now weakens the validation to permit the corruption. A subsequent fix in v22.2 is scheduled that will repair the invalid reference. [#82859][#82859]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where, in earlier v22.1 releases, added validation could cause problems for descriptors which carried invalid back references due to a previous bug in v21.1. This stricter validation could result in a variety of query failures. CockroachDB now weakens the validation to permit the corruption. A subsequent fix in v22.2 is scheduled that will repair the invalid reference. [#82859][#82859]
```

- Added missing support for preparing a `DECLARE` cursor statement with placeholders. [#83001][#83001]
- CockroachDB now treats node unavailable errors as retry-able [changefeed](../v22.1/use-changefeeds.html) errors. [#82874][#82874]
- CockroachDB now ensures running changefeeds do not inhibit node shutdown. [#82874][#82874]
- **Last Execution** time now shows the correct value on **Statement Details** page. [#83114][#83114]
- CockroachDB now uses the proper multiplying factor to contention value on **Statement Details** page. [#82960][#82960]
- CockroachDB now prevents disabling [TTL](../v22.1/row-level-ttl.html) with `ttl = 'off'` to avoid conflicting with other TTL settings. To disable TTL, use `RESET (ttl)`. [#83216][#83216]
- Fixed a panic that could occur if the `inject_retry_errors_enabled` cluster setting is true and an `INSERT` is executed outside of an explicit transaction. [#83193][#83193]

> - Fixed a bug where a user could be connected to a database, but be unable to see the metadata for that database in `pg_catalog` if the user did not have the correct privileges (e.g., `CONNECT`) for the database. Now, a user can always see the `pg_catalog` metadata for the currently connected database. This is needed because CockroachDB currently does not require the `CONNECT` privilege to connect to a database (see [#59875](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/59875)). [#83360][#83360]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously, a user could be connected to a database but unable to see the metadata for that database in [`pg_catalog`](../v22.1/pg-catalog) if the user did not have privileges for the database. Now, users can always see the `pg_catalog` metadata for a database they are connected to (see [#59875](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/59875)). [#83360][#83360]
```

- Fixed a bug where `ADD COLUMN` or `DROP COLUMN` statements with the legacy schema changer could fail on tables with large rows due to exceeding the Raft command maximum size. [#83816][#83816]

<h3 id="v22-1-3-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- This release significantly improves the performance of [`IMPORT` statements](../v22.1/import.html) when the source is producing data not sorted by the destination table's primary key, especially if the destination table has a very large primary key with lots of columns. [#82746][#82746]
- [Decommissioning nodes](../v22.1/node-shutdown.html) is now substantially faster, particularly for small to moderately loaded nodes. [#82680][#82680]
- Queries with filters containing tuples in `= ANY` expressions, such as `(a, b) = ANY(ARRAY[(1, 10), (2, 20)])`, are now index accelerated. [#83467][#83467]
- Fixed a bug where it was possible to accrue [MVCC](../v22.1/architecture/storage-layer.html#mvcc) garbage for much longer than needed. [#82967][#82967]

<h3 id="v22-1-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 70 merged PRs by 36 authors.

> We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - e-mbrown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is Ebony Brown
